---
path: /blog/olympic_peninsula_1
date: 2021-03-26T20:30:00.000Z
trip: https://www.google.com/maps/dir/Bellevue,+WA/South+Fork+Hoh+Campground,+Forks,+WA/@47.5431432,-123.8527627,9z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m14!4m13!1m5!1m1!1s0x54906bcfa3a66041:0xbacf5482ead00765!2m2!1d-122.2015159!2d47.6101497!1m5!1m1!1s0x548e6b681e9fdb55:0x2b853af333180489!2m2!1d-123.995623!2d47.806502!3e0
destination: '{"type":"Point","coordinates":[-123.9962161,47.8064535]}'
title: Olympic Peninsula Camping Day 1/3
---
We started our camping trip to Olympic National Park a bit late, leaving around 1:30pm after getting groceries. At around 6:30pm we arrived at our campground: space #7 at the first-come, first-serve South Fork Hoh Campground just outside the National Park in Olympic Experimental State Forest. With about an hour of sunlight left, we set up the two-person tent right away which only took about 20 minutes. After the tent was set up, Lizzie went to collect firewood while I attempted to string up the hammock. I was unsuccessful. Hammock straps are a MUST which I thought came with my hammock, but was mistaken (I should have checked beforehand 🤦‍♂️). I tried to hang it with paracord, but I'm not skilled enough with knots to know which are appropriate and certainly not skilled enough to trust my weight on any.

Lizzie came back with some firewood, but we soon realized that most of it was too wet (we were in a rainforest after all). Making a fire was difficult because of the material we had. The TinderQuick Fire Starting Tabs are *fantastic*; I won't be camping without them. Precut fatwood kindling was also super helpful, and let the fire burn long enough for us to cook a gnocchi meal we brought from Home Chef.

We both slept in the two-person tent, at first laying down head-to-foot, but we soon realized that laying next to each other facing the same way was a better configuration for this particular tent. Long underwear was essential, and the wool blanket I draped over my sleeping bag helped quite a bit, but my sleeping bag was a bit lacking. I'll look into getting a better sleeping bag and a larger wool blanket for next time. I also slept on a Camp Bed and can't imaging not having one, although I will be looking for one that's a bit more compact.